1. Introduction
Ceramics have been widely used in some important and complex environments due to their high hardness and bending strength, etc.; however, their main shortcoming is their brittleness. Researchers have studied various toughening systems and mechanisms, such as whisker-reinforced and toughened materials [1], self-toughening materials [2], and particle-dispersion toughened materials [3]. However, in the process of material processing and application, it is inevitable that they will be damaged and produce a few micro-cracks, which would seriously degrade the performance of the ceramic composite, and finally cause catastrophic damage [4,5,6,7]. Inspired by the biological self-healing, the cracks are expected to also heal spontaneously before causing damage, recovering more than 90% of the undamaged strength of the matrix.

The self-healing mechanism of ceramic materials have been proposed generally to be of two types; one is diffusive healing [8], the other one is that some components react with the environmental medium to generate a glass sealant, forming a line of defense, blocking pores and cracks, and generating an intelligent response that actively adapts to the external environment [9,10]. The self-healing components must have a speedy reactivity with the environmental medium to cause a volume expansion with a certain fluidity. In order to cover the actual operating temperatures of the ceramic matrix composite (CMC), we need to explore agents in a range of healing temperatures. Nowadays, healing agents applied at moderate temperatures have achieved the most attention, such as SiC, Si3N4 and new ternary MAX family ceramics [11,12,13]. Nakatani et al. [14] prepared Si3N4/Y2O3, Si3N4/SiC/Y2O3 and Si3N4/Y2O3/Al2O3 ceramics and studied the effect of healing conditions on their oxidation behavior, and found good crack-healing ability. Due to the requirements of the high temperature applications, some high temperature healing agents are emerging, such as MoSi2 [15], HfSi2 [16], Y2SiO5 [17], ZrSiO4 [18]. Wang et al. [19] sprayed ZrSi2-MoSi2 on the SiC-coated C/C ceramic composite by using an ultrasonic plasma spraying technology, which showed good self-healing performance at 1450 °C. However, there is little research on the healing agent at low temperatures less than 800 °C. Bei et al. [20] examined crack healing using an Al2O3 composite loaded with the Ti2Al0.5Sn0.5C MAX phase repair filler. When cracks occurred in the matrix, the strength recovered by 107% at 700 °C for 48 h, and TiO2, SnO2 and α-Al2O3 was detected in the cracks. Yoshioka et al. [21] reported the application of TiC particles as a healing agent in alumina-based composites, presenting that the tensile strength of damaged samples was completely restored after annealing at 800 °C for 1 h. Boron and borides [22] could act as the healing agents at lower temperatures. B4C reacts with oxygen at high temperatures to generate B2O3, which has a melting temperature of 450 °C to be fluidic and a volume expansion rate of about 250% to fill up the cracks. In order to ensure that the oxidation product B2O3 plays a role in healing and that the inflow cracks are healed, the healing temperature must be in the range of 600 °C to 800 °C.

In order for ceramics to heal themselves in the actual application, it is very important to perform thermal oxidation at a low temperature within a short period. In this paper, the effect of the healing temperature and healing time of B4C with 15% mass fraction on the crack healing behavior in SiC/Al3O2 base ceramics was investigated. The healing behavior was studied on the micro-structure and macro-properties, and the healing mechanism was also explored.

2. Materials and Methods
2.1. Fabrication of the Ceramic Composite
The raw materials of SiC, Al2O3, B4C and glass powder (softening temperature 900 °C, to reduce the sintering temperature), 3 μm in average particle size and 99.9% in purity, was weighed at the mass ratio of 70%SiC-30%Al2O3:B4C:glass powder = 65%:15%:20%. The powders were mixed and ball-milled with a little ethanol for 6 h, and then dried at 90 °C in a vacuum for 10 h. The mixed powder was put into a graphite die 25 mm in diameter and compacted by spark plasma sintering in a vacuum at Ts = 1350 °C with the heating rate of 100 °C/min under a pressure of 30 MPa for the soaking time of 10 min. The sintered sample was cut into rectangular strips with a precision cutting machine, and ground on both sides of the sample. The two sides were polished to a mirror finish to remove the scratches produced during the sample preparation and cutting process. The four edges also need be chamfered at 45° to reduce the residual stress on the surface of the specimen during processing. Finally, the size of the standard sample is 3 × 4 × 20 mm.

A Vickers hardness test was used to prefabricate the cracks in order to simulate the cracks on the surface of ceramic materials, and the length of the cracks was determined by controlling the load. The cracks in this experiment were prefabricated under a load of 98 N for 15 s. The position of the indentation is located at the center of the sample. The healing of the cracks is conducted for various times (th = 0–300 min) and temperatures (Th = 600–800 °C) with a heating rate of 10 °C/min in air.

2.2. Characterization of the Ceramic Composite
The strength of the sample before and after healing was measured by three-point bending (Electronic universal testing machine, Instron 5966, Instron, Norwood, MA, USA) with the span of 20 mm at a loading rate of 0.5 mm/min. The phase composition of the ceramic composite was identified by X-ray diffraction (XRD, Empyrean, Malvern PANanalytical, Malvern, UK) using Cu Kα radiation. The surface morphology of the cracks was observed using a field emission scanning electron microscope (FE-SEM, JSM-7500F, JEOL, Akishima, Japan). Energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) analysis was conducted by using a spectrometer attached to this SEM. The chemical compositions of surface oxides were studied by X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS, Escalab 250Xi, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA). The thermodynamic data for stoichiometric phase was calculated using the HSC Chemistry thermodynamic software.
3.1. Composite Microstructure
Figure 1a shows the XRD pattern of the sintered ceramic composites. The crystalline phases of SiC, Al2O3 only can be observed, indicating that there are no other side reactions during the high temperature sintering. Since the peak of B4C is very weak and overlaps with other peaks, it is difficult to be detected in XRD, whereas B4C was identified by EDS as shown in Figure 1b. At the dark region marked position, a large amount of B and C was detected. Indicating the dark phase is B4C. Meanwhile, the healing agent B4C is evenly dispersed in SiC/Al2O3 matrix, providing a prerequisite for cracks healing. Figure 1c,d shows the Vickers indentation and the magnified crack of ceramic composites. The pre-crack is to simulate the occurrence of cracks and facilitate the observation of crack healing during the study of self-healing performance.

Figure 1.